Whenever we invoke gcc compiler, it does the four main tasks:
1.Preprocessing
2.Compilation
3.Assembly
4.Linking

1.gcc -E filename.c :This command  stops the program after the preprocessing process.It will not compile,assembly and link the program.
2.gcc -c filename.c :-This command will only compile and assemble the program. It will do not link the program hence there will be no executable file for executing the program.
3.gcc -S filename.c :- This command will compile the program successfuly but not assemble to execute the program.
4.gcc -o outputfilname filename.c:- This command will generate the output or executable file of the users choice by which user can execute the current code.
5.gcc -Werror filename.c :-This command will list all the errors which is made in the program by the user.
6.gcc -Wall filename.c -: This command will list not only the errors but also the warnings like unused variable, unused data type .

Basic File Commands:-

1.ls-: list all the directories which is present in current working directory.
2.ls -al -: It is used to show all the sub-directories which are present under any directory.
3.cd -: The command used for change directory.
4 cd .. -" It is used to take one step backward from current directory.
5.mkdir filename -: It is used to make new directory.
6. pwd -: It will show the current directory in which we are working.
7.rm filename -: It will remove that particular file from the system.
8.rm -r directoryname-: It will remove the whole directory or folder.
9.cp file1 file 2 -: It will copy file 1 to file 2.
10.touch filename-: It will update the file and creates the file if particular file does not exist.
11.cat filename - It will show all the content which is written inside the file.
12.more filename-: It will show the whole content of file like cat command.
13.less filename-: It will show only the content of file and rest of the page will be blank.
14.head filename-: It outputs the first 10 lines of the file.
15.tail filename-: It outputs the last 10 lines of the file.

Basic Vim Commands:
1. :wq -: save and quit.
2. :x- :save and quit.
3. :q -:exit if no changes has to be done.
4.: q! -:exit and ignore changes




